Before putting in my USB drive with ubuntu 26 on it, I'll
first reboot windows until it does so cleanly without installing
more updates.

On this laptop, pressing the F2 key while the machine is first
starting up gets me into the BIOS screen (where I can change
the boot order away from the default of booting Windows off
the SSD).

I shut down Windows one final time (for now, I'll only be
booting back into it to verify it still works periodically).

Then I inserted my thumbdrive with the ubuntu 26 ISO written
to it (see elsewhere in this repo for that instruction), and
pressed the power key, immediately following up with hammering
on the F2 key (probably I could get away with just holding
it down, but I learned to rapid fire press it instead and still
do it that way).

Now I'm in my BIOS setup from Asus, and I switch the boot priority
so that the UEFI: Asolid USB, Partition2 (ASolid USB) is above
Windows Boot Manager (MTFDKB A1T0QGN-1BN1AABGA)

If it's not obvious, even if you have the exact same model laptop
I do, probably the details of what's being displayed for boot
options will at least be subtly (if not grossly!) different
than what I'm documenting here.

Before saving and exiting from the BIOS I'm going to look at
some other options too.

So into Advanced Mode (F7):
Under Main, there's nothing to change but the language
and I'll keep that as English

So let's look at Advanced next. All looks fine there. In
general, there's no need to change anything unless there's
a specific reason. My search is for any virtualization
related setting (which I want to make sure is enabled), along
with making sure I have secure boot disabled.

Boot similarly is fine (since I already made the change I
needed from the "Simple" interface before I entered into this
"Advanced" mode of the BIOS.

Under Security, Secure Boot was indeed Enabled. I've
disabled it. Which means I should probably boot back into
Windows to see what happens first. Ah well, this is not the
time to rush, so let's pull out the ubuntu 26 thumbdrive, save
and exit and see what happens.


Yeah, disabling secure boot wiped out my (locally stored
I presume?) PIN and I had to reset it after recovering
my windows account with a passkey I have on my phone.

Joy, joy, joy...



OK, so now let's start over and go back to the BIOS to
make sure after I plug in my ubuntu 26 thumbdrive, that
it's still set to boot from there before booting Windows
from the internal SSD.

Nope, it wasn't.

So change that and then save and exit.


So now i'm booting off of the live media and getting
ready to install ubuntu 26 (which I've not ever done
before, as I have only installed 24, 25 and earlier
versions as of now).

The trick is to allow ubuntu to compress the windows
installation (I think?), though I think I can shrink
Windows first as an alternative, so I may end up going
back and doing that.

Yeah, I think that's the way I want to proceed.

But let me just look at install options for ubuntu
while I'm booted here...

I'll definitely be back later and getting familiar
with the install process for this new version certainly
won't hurt.

Hmmm

now I'm rethinking everything

it doesn't look like I'm going to be able to do what I
want with ubuntu (everything is so automated now and I am not
sure how many options I actually have), so I think I'll
shrink Windows from within Windows and then install
Fedora (which is the OS I really want to use anyhow!),
and maybe leave ubuntu off this laptop (it only has a 1T
drive and that will give my fedora OS more freedom instead
of constraining it with less space on the SSD)

